Oh, my God,
that is so freakin’ funny.
- I know, right?
- What?
Dad just wrote
another classic one.
Oh.
Tell her.
I don’t know about classic,
but– here we go.
If you’re looking
for a two-story house,
I’m your man.
I’ll tell you one story
before you buy it,
and then
another story after.
No, you didn’t.
[ Both Laughing ]
Tonight is the SCARB.
The Southern California
Annual Realtor’s Banquet.
I think they know what it is.
Mm-hmm.
It’s the mother
of all residential
real estate banquets.
Now, for the last five years
Gil Thorpe has hosted,
but, as luck would have it,
he’s having
a sketchy-looking polyp removed,
so they’ve asked me
to fill in.
[ Chuckling ]
See what I did?
Oh, yeah.
Fill. You think
I should open with that?
I– You betcha. You should.
Phil is gonna bomb.
It’s not that he’s not fun.
He is so fun.
He’s just not funny.
It’s probably my fault,
because I laugh
at all of his jokes.
With my mouth,
not with my eyes.
"I see the great Realtor
Margaret Wilson is here,
looking more curvaceous
than ever.
Talk about
your balloon payments."
[ Both Laughing ]
[ Jay ]
Gloria, do we have to keep this
Colombia-Brazil soccer game?
Yes. I haven’t seen it yet.
It’s been sitting in there
for five months.
I mean, I can tell you who wins.
[ Babbling ]
What about this two-hour
Antiques Roadshow?
I’ll watch it today.
Fine.
I’m gonna play some golf.
No. What about Mirabel’s
daughter’s quinceañera?
I honestly didn’t get
any of that.
Mirabel? She works for you?
Okay.
Her daughter, Rosalba,
is celebrating her quinceañera–
her 15th birthday.
She invited us.
You’re just going to ignore it.
Of course not.
I get this
all the time.
I throw it on
my secretary’s
desk,
and she
sends them
an Omaha Steak.
Ay, Jay.
What?
[ Groans ]
Manny’s right.
The quinceañera
is very important
in the Latin culture.
The moment the father dances
with his little princess.
Ay. I remember my own father
holding my hand.
There wasn’t a dry eye
in the cartel.
But these people
don’t want me there.
See, they’re just being polite.
I’m the boss.
That’s what you tell yourself
so you can stay above them.
You just throw them
an Obama Steak and run
to the golf course.
I’m not trying
to stay above them.
I just don’t think I have
to go all arriba, arriba
with them.
’Cause you’re better
than them?
No. Of course not.
I mean, I’m better
than some of them.
Do you even know
these people, Jay? Hmm?
Or they’re just the backs
you step on?
I know you like
to make me out
as an elitist,
but the truth is,
I’m close with these people.
Then prove it.
Let’s go to the party.
Fine. One hour. You drive.
’Cause I don’t wanna give my
valet ticket to the wrong guy,
have you all over me.
Ay, Jay.
Where do you keep
popping out from?
So Cam has started
working out again,
which is–
It’s-It’s great.
He’s feeling good about himself,
and I want him to be healthy,
so it is all good.
Except for one thing.
Knock, knock.
Look who’s there.
[ Sighs ]
Maybe there’s a person
in this world who looks good
in bike shorts,
but my boyfriend
is not that person.
And I can’t tell him because
he gets incredibly sensitive...
about even the tiniest comment
concerning his physique.
Hey, I think I’m gonna take
this spin class
tomorrow morning.
Oh, sure.
Oh, I get it.
Message received.
I didn’t say anything!
♪ Hey, hey ♪
♪ Hey ♪♪
Okay, can’t you just run
like a normal person?
What? It’s troga.
It’s what?
You never heard of troga?
I hate it when you do that.
What?
"You never heard
of troga?"
"You never tried octopus?"
"You’ve never done
this amazing thing
I just discovered yesterday...
but I pretend like
I’ve done my whole life?"
So troga is treadmill yoga.
It’s de rigueur.
It’s de-dorky.
[ Slaps Hand ]
[ Mouths Word ]
What is your deal today?
I’m sorry.
Phil is hosting
that thing tonight,
and he’s been writing jokes.
Ooh, yikes.
I know.
And I’m worried he’s gonna
humiliate himself in front
of all those important people.
I can’t say anything
because–
No. No.
I get it. I get it.
Because it would hurt him
even more coming from you.
Yeah.
I’m kinda going through
something similar
with Cam right now.
Why?
He’s started exercising again.
That’s good for him.
Yeah. He’s wearing bike shorts.
That’s bad for you.
And I’m the last person who
could say anything because he–
No.
Okay, wait.
No, no, all right–
You know the movie
Strangers on a Train?
I never saw it.
You’ve never seen
Strangers on a–
I’m sorry. Great film.
But it’s these guys who both
discover that they want
someone out of their lives.
Uh-huh.
So one of the guys proposes
the perfect crime.
They will do
each other’s murders.
We should do that.
All right,
so I would tell Cam
to lose the bike shorts?
Keeping me out of it.
And I tell Phil
to lose the jokes.
I like it. I’m in.
All right.
I am in.
Hey, Mackenzie, s’up?
It’s Alex.
Hey, so, I was thinking
later we–
Oh, no.
Whatever you want.
Call me later,
or I’ll call you later or–
[ Groans ]
[ Phone Beeps ]
So who’s Mackenzie?
You don’t know her.
[ Hayley ]
Oh, I know Mackenzie–
Cute, popular.
I am Mackenzie.
I invented Mackenzie.
And the way she’s
making my sister run around–
[ Chuckles ]
It’s kinda funny,
but I can’t have it.
It’s bad for the family.
[ Beeping ]
What are you doing?
I was about to call–
Mackenzie? Yeah, I know.
Now shut up and let me help you.
The world is divided
into two groups:
cool girls
and girls like you.
And you have been given
a rare opportunity...
to move from the former
to the latter.
- The latter to the former.
- Whatever.
Oh, my God, you’re such a geek.
Now, do you want to be smart,
or do you want to be popular?
[ Sighs ]
I think I wanna be popular.
Of course you do.
You just can’t be
so obvious about it.
You’ve given Mackenzie
way too much power,
and you need to take
some of that power back.
[ Ringing ]
It’s her.
Give me the phone.
Here’s what
you’re gonna say.
"Hey, Mackenzie.
I’m busy.
Call me back later."
Then you hang up.
No way.
[ Sighs ]
Then you’re not
getting the phone back.
Just give it to me.
"Hey, Mackenzie. I’m busy.
Call me back later."
- Then you hang up.
- I can’t.
- Do it.
- No!
Do it!
Okay!
Damn you!
[ Beeps ]
Hey, Mackenzie. I’m busy.
Call me back later.
[ Beeps ]
[ Sighs ]
That was hard.
If it was easy,
everyone would be popular.
[ Knocking ]
[ Claire ]
Knock, knock.
[ Cameron ]
Come on in. It’s open.
Hey. I just wanted to drop off
these old baby clothes for Lily.
Oh, that’s right.
You’re so sweet.
I hope I didn’t come
at a bad time.
Not at all.
I was just deciding where
to take Lily for our bike ride–
the lake or the park.
I’m leaning towards the park.
I can see that.
[ Beeping ]
You didn’t have to do that.
You guys are a touch o’ class.
[ Chuckles ]
Well, it is a big night
for you, so–
French.
Those guys.
So have you given any thought
to what you might say?
Actually, I’m trying not
to think about my act right now.
- I’m kinda fighting the old
butterflies, to be honest.
- Oh, come on.
That’s normal.
I hear the Jonas Brothers
get scared before every concert.
Not Kevin?
The guy’s a rock.
Especially Kevin.
Ugh! I can’t believe
I ever bought this for Alex.
I wish somebody
had said something.
Oh, come on.
That was probably
cute 10 years ago.
No. No, it never was.
And you know,
I’m the exact same way
about my clothes.
Most of the time, great,
but every now and again,
there’s that one outfit
I just wish somebody
would be honest with me and say,
"What you’re wearing
isn’t appropriate."
Do you know what I mean?
I think I do, Claire.
I think I do.
Mm-hmm.
And my answer is yes.
Okay.
I would love to dress you.
No, I don’t
want you to dress me.
No. And I owe it
to you to be honest,
so I’m just gonna say
that you need to lose
the bicycle shorts.
Excuse me?
They’re not working
for you, Cam.
Please don’t
take this personally.
I mean, nobody looks good
in bike shorts.
I just– I feel
that I owe it to you
to be honest.
So, we’re good, right?
We’re great.
Great. Okay.
So–
You should probably
just show yourself out.
I hear some crying
down the hallway.
Look at that–
That’s a good dad,
because you’ve got a baby...
and you hear
every little sound.
I would’ve–
I wouldn’t have
even noticed... crying.
[ Door Slams ]
[ Cameron Sobbing ]
No. Okay. All right.
All you need to know
about this one...
is that Skip Woosnum
is a well-known Realtor–
Mm-hmm.
- and he’s old.
- Got it.
Skip Woosnum, Realtor, old.
Here we go.
I’m not saying
Realtor Skip Woosnum is old,
but the first property
he ever sold...
was a cave.
[ Phil Laughs ]
You’re not, uh–
not laughing.
Why aren’t you laughing,
Uncle Mitchell?
Because he doesn’t think
it’s funny. Or maybe
you don’t think I’m funny.
Is that what you’re
saying, Mitch?
No, it’s–
I just got it.
[ Laughing ]
Oh, my. That’s–
Oh.
Cave.
[ Laughing ]
Yes. Yes.
That one’s kind of a thinker.
♪♪ [ Salsa ]
[ Chattering, Laughing ]
Here he is.
All right, now.
Knock it off,
Jay.
You don’t know
anyone’s name here.
Are you kidding me?
Carlos!
Lucky guess.
I’m lucky
only one turned around.
Listen, I need a favor.
I overestimated the number
of people I know at this party.
So you go around,
introduce yourself,
and I’ll hear the names.
You realize you’re
asking me to help prove
my own mother wrong?
I’ll pay two bucks
per introduction.
All right, that’s Ramona.
She’s crazy for bingo.
Ramona.
[ Spanish ]
What’s going on next door?
It’s a Quinceañera.
Another Quinceañera?
This is not a Quinceañera.
This is
an engagement party. Look.
Gloria.
Stop being such a snob.
Come over and meet
my friend Julio
and his wife.
I’m sorry.
Your name again?
¿Qué?
I think you’re really
gonna hit it off with Kay.
Mm-hmm.
She’s gonna tell me
how to dress?
She oughta stick to things
she knows more about,
like overcooking salmon.
Okay, wait.
She actually said
that you don’t look good
in bicycle shorts.
Yes.
You don’t look good
in bicycle shorts.
Madness.
[ Cell Phone Ringing ]
Oh, and here she is.
Okay, you know what?
I can’t be here.
I’m going out for air.
Yes. Yes. Go.
This could get ugly.
[ Beeps ]
Hello, Claire.
You are a gutless weasel.
Oh, yeah, no, I heard
what you said to my boyfriend.
You told Phil
he was hysterical.
You said he was
this generation’s
Richard Pryor.
Well, I am not the one
that you need to apologize to.
What are you babbling about?
You owe me a murder.
[ Door Closes ]
Okay, Claire,
I couldn’t do it.
I couldn’t crush Phil’s dreams.
We had a deal.
I told Cam
about the bike shorts.
No. No.
The deal was to get Cam
to take off the bike shorts.
But guess what? He is still
in the stupid bike shorts.
Can I call you back?
Turns out Cam was here
the whole time, and he just
heard everything I said.
Oh. Did he just run
into the bedroom and cry?
- Yes, ’cause that’s
what all gay men do.
- [ Door Slams ]
We all dissolve into–
[ Cameron Wailing ]
Yes, that is what he did.
[ Whimpers ]
There are challenging moments
in every marriage.
Um, having to tell your husband
that he’s not funny,
so that he won’t
humiliate himself,
has to be one of the toughest.
[ Chattering ]
So I went a different way.
Stop talking.
I just need some time
for this wound
to become a scar.
I’m sorry
I got Claire involved,
but–
and this
is not a criticism–
but sometimes you can be
a little sensitive
about your appearance.
Well, this is a criticism.
Sometimes you
can be insensitive
about everything.
Oh, my– Cam, I just feel like
our relationship’s
strong enough...
to survive a little candor.
Look, you could tell me
if there’s something about me
you’d like to change.
I hate your beard.
Wow. Well, you had that bullet
in the chamber.
I never said anything
because I never wanted
to hurt you,
but I’ve always found
your beard off-putting.
[ Pages Flipping ]
See? Hurts.
[ Door Opens, Slams ]
Mitchell?
Mitchell, get back here!
What are you doing?
I’m shaving off the beard.
Seriously?
Yeah. The man I love
doesn’t like it,
so off it goes.
Well, good.
Good.
Great.
Great. Okay.
[ Exhales ]
One, two, three–
Wait!
The fact that you’re
willing to do it
is enough for me.
I love your beard.
I love that
when you drink cappuccino
you get foam in it,
and when you’re nervous
your little hairs twitch.
You couldn’t have told me
before I took a notch out?
I’m sorry. I-I–
Listen, I know...
I can be touchy about...
this,
but you’re this
amazing-looking guy and–
I am not amazing–
Uh, really?
I wouldn’t change anything.
Oh.
[ Mutters, Chuckles ]
You should know that
every day I wake up...
very grateful
to have you in my life.
I’m the one
who got lucky, handsome.
Maybe I just don’t
show it enough.
You can make it up to me
by doing my shoulders.
Sure.
I meant a massage.
What are you saying?
Oh, Mitchell. Mitchell.
[ Ringing ]
- It’s Mackenzie.
- Again.
She wants me to come
to this party she’s throwing.
She texted me earlier.
- You texted her back, right?
- [ Scoffs ]
No.
Wow. I’m... proud?
[ Ringing Continues ]
Tell her you’ll try
and come–
Right.
And then when she says–
Haley, I got this.
[ Phone Beeps ]
Hey.
Who’s this?
Brilliant.
No, I didn’t see it.
I get a lot of texts.
[ Sobs ]
I have a sister.
When’s the party?
I’ll try and come.
You know, I’m kinda busy.
I have a life.
You know, stuff. Homework.
Uh-oh.
I mean not homework–
It’s not work if you love it.
- Oh, God. Hang up, hang up.
- Shut up!
- Not you, Mackenzie.
- Drop the phone
and kick it over here.
Um, I have to go.
I’ll call you later–
[ Mouthing Words ]
or you call me later.
Love you.
[ Beeps ]
[ Both Screaming ]
They were right in here.
I know, and we looked
everywhere, honey.
So, just calm down.
Are you kidding me?
Calm down?
In one minute
I’m gonna be standing up
there like– like a–
Oh my God,
I have no material at all.
Okay.
You’re gonna be fine.
You don’t need jokes.
Listen to me.
Honey, get up there,
be your charming self.
Make the introductions
from your heart and get out.
[ Man ]
...Realtors’ Banquet.
You’re gonna be amazing.
And now your host,
Phil Dunphy.
Okay?
Go. Go.
[ Clears Throat ]
Good evening.
I would not be here tonight
if not for the hard work
of the SCARB board of trustees–
I didn’t have my jokes.
What choice does a guy have
but to play it straight?
...the support of my family...
and Gil Thorpe’s colon.
[ Audience Laughing ]
But Phil Dunphy
is no straight guy.
[ Laughing Continues ]
So many giants
of residential real estate
here tonight.
And of course, J.J. McCubbin.
[ Laughing ]
I’m not saying J.J. is small,
but in the realty section,
he was described as "charming."
Mark Simon, you out there?
There’s Mark.
How are you, buddy?
Mark recently
moved into a new model.
How are you, Francine?
I kid Mark Simon.
I kid Mark Simon. He knows–
Francito, Little Manuel
and Carlos,
my wife, Gloria.
Nice to meet you.
We have to talk.
Un momento.
You know, I can’t believe
you never met them.
You’ve never met
any of these people.
You don’t know anyone
in this room.
Vámonos, Jay.
I’m not leaving before
the father/daughter dance.
And "these people,"
as you call them,
are not just employees.
They’re mi familia,
or my family.
I know what
mi familia is, Jay.
Oh, I was afraid of this.
[ Applause ]
At this time,
I would like to bring the future
groom to the dance floor.
Hold this for me.
No, Jay. No.
[ Mouthing Words ]
[ Jay ]
Thank you.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you very much.
I’m gonna make this brief.
I know a lot
of you out there
don’t even know who I am.
As my lovely wife, Gloria,
pointed out,
that’s my fault, not yours.
I’m Jay Pritchett– el jefe.
[ Chuckles ]
Listen, on this very,
very happy occasion,
I’d like to pick up
the tab on the bar.
Thank you.
You know,
when I started this company,
♪♪ [ Ballad ]
the first thing that I–
What?
Oh, right. Right.
This is not about me.
This is about
a very special young lady...
and the man who loves her
more than anyone else
on earth.
Isn’t that lovely?
That’s a beautiful,
beautiful thing.
You know, I’m reminded
of when I used to dance
with my little girl.
But not like that.
Slow down there, muchacho.
No, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no.
[ Guests Applauding ]
What?
Are you applauding this?
You’re applauding this?
I don’t care what kind
of tradition this is.
- This is gonna stop.
- [ Feedback ]
Hey, hey, hey. No.
[ Gloria ]
Por favor.
What? Am I the only one
seeing this?
Vamos, vamos, vamos.
I mean, honey,
I am not kidding
when I tell you...
there was a woman next to me
gasping for breath.
Seriously, you were
so freaking funny, Phil.
I have seen professional
comedians who could never
have done that.
You were unbeliev–
I know it was you, Claire.
You stole my index cards.
I’m sorry. I’m so sorry.
I thought I was protecting you,
and if my plan had been
successful...
I would have robbed you
of the greatest night ever.
I’m sorry. I’m awful.
You’re not awful.
Mm-hmm.
Claire,
I love that you’re
looking out for me,
and I know why
you worry about me,
but I knew I had this
tonight.
[ Sniffles ]
I know.
Sometimes I just think
my job is to make sure...
you guys don’t fall
on your faces.
That’s a hard job
in the Dunphy house.
[ Laughs, Chuckles ]
We fall a lot.
I know.
Maybe your real job
is to be the person
who picks us back up.
Nobody does that
better than you.
Thank you.
Alex.
I have no friends.
You’re on the clock.
Mmm.
All right.
What happened?
[ Claire, Luke Laughing ]
Oh my gosh, Mom,
you’re killing me.
It’s pretty good, right?
Pretty good?
You could be, like, in Vegas.
- Well– I don’t know.
- What’s going on there?
Mom does
the funniest impression...
of that weird lady
at the supermarket.
Oh, yeah, I know her.
Let’s hear it.
Okay. Um–
[ Mimicking ] "It’s cheaper
if you buy two jars of pickles."
[ Chuckling ]
It’s like she’s right here.
Yeah.
Totally like
she’s right here.
Yeah.
It’s not what she sounds like.